In our solution, we represented the forks as channels to for the philosophers to communicate with as a shared resource. This is to ensure that the philosophers will not directly communicate with one another to check if a fork is available.

Task 2.1:
We used assertions to check that each fork in the forks_counter will always be less than or equal to 1 to ensure that a single fork cannot be held by more than one philosopher at a time. As this property was satisfied, we did not have to change the model.

Task 2.2:
We then used an ltl to check that each fork in the forks_counter will always be less than or equal to 1 (i.e { [] forks_counter[i] <= 1 }). This solution is more extensive compared to our assertion-based solution as Spin is able to check if the property is satisfied after every statement, rather than only when it reaches the assert statement. As this property was still satisfied in our model, we did not have to change it.

Task 3.1:
To verify deadlocks, we simple ran "verify" on the model and checked for the "invalid end state" message. As we initially had possible deadlocks, we modified our model by making every odd-numbered philosopher take their left fork first before the right and every even-numbered philosopher take their right fork before their left. This algorithm ensures that we avoid a deadlock as there will not be a circular chain of dependencies. This is proved by verifying on Spin where we no longer receive the "invalid end state" message.

Task 3.2:
We formulated a liveness property to verify that each philosopher will eventually be able to eat. However, this property can only be verified if strong fairness is provided. This can be seen from the counter-example that Spin provided which shows a philosopher being starved from picking up the second fork as the statement checking if the fork is available is not continuously executable due to the same fork being repeatedly picked up by the neighbouring philosopher. As such, for our liveness property to hold, we are required to assume strong fairness.

Task 3.3:
SPIN cannot be used to prove starvation freedom because the philosopher problem may occur infinitely. With each philosopher repeatedly acquiring and releasing forks in an infinite sequence of states with an infinite number of possible infinite interleavings, SPIN cannot analyze all possible interleavings as SPIN can only verify properties in finite state spaces.

In addition, starvation freedom is considered a liveness property. However, as verifying starvation freedom is based on a resource or process (i.e phil) in our particular case, it is dependent on other factors such as the scheduling policy and resource allocation strategy of our system, which Spin is unable to accurately model.

Task 4.1:
With the help of Spin, we are confident that our solution in correct in the sense that no deadlocks will occur and that no fork can be held by more than one philosopher at any point of time. However as mentioned before, we are unable to check for starvation freedom due to the lack of knowledge on a scheduling policy. In additon, due to the same fact, we are also unable to ensure that all philosophers have an equal chance of eating, or that they are able to eat infinitely often.

Should we be able to further test our solution using a proper and fair scheduling policy, we can then improve our confidence on whether our solution is able to achieve starvation freedom.

Task 4.2:
Risk 1: Spin is solely reliant on the user's specification of the properties that need to be held by the model. As such, if there were any incorrect properties defined by us, this may lead to our model being an incorrect solution to the dining philosophers problem even though Spin is able to correct verify that the model satisfies the properties.

Risk 2: As Spin is required the exhaustively search for all possible interleavings of the state space, increasing the number of philosophers (i.e N) to a larger number may cause the state space to grow exponentially and result in Spin being unable to explore all states. This may lead to us incorrectly concluding that our solution is correct even if it may not satify the properties in an unexplored state.